# Balance of Payment: a Euphemism
& TBD

When reading about the IMF, I keep hearing that they helped countries with their "balance of payment" problems. Jon Williamson, in a lament for the phrase "Washington Consensus,"{1 "Did the Washington Consensus Fail?" An outline for a speech, dated 2002. https://www.piie.com/commentary/speeches-papers/did-washington-consensus-fail} which he coined, speaks of a "balance of payment crisis," and how dealing with this through "Fiscal Discipline" was ultimately good for a country's working and poor people. If you can pay attention long enough, it's easy enough to figure out that "balance of payments problem" just means that a country has run up a large deficit in its accounts. But I kept on seeing the phrase without understanding how it came about.

So how did these balance of payments crises happen? Rather than being accused of using an unrigorous open-sourced alternative, I decided to find the answer on Encyclopedia Britannica's website. This is from an informative article titled "Third World debt":

"The origins of developing-world debt crisis can be traced to the oil-price shock of 1973–74. At the time, the member states of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) limited the supply of oil, which resulted in a huge increase in its price. That had a significant impact on all importers of oil, including many newly independent countries in Africa. The excess profits that OPEC members received were then invested in the Western commercial banking sector."{2 https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt}

Ok, so seems like alot of money was flowing into private US banks. What next?

"The banks then sought to find new borrowers to lend that money to. Developing countries, which were in need of development assistance to soften the impact of increased oil prices, were considered a sensible and safe option by the banks. That meant that during the second half of the 1970s, a significant proportion of the flows of capital to the developing world came from commercial banks." {3 Same, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt}

Oh, ok, so private banks were making large and lucrative loans to these countries. So these are the guys that those countries, the ones with the "balance of payments crisis", owed money too. Well good thing they were private U.S. banks, the international financial system would probably understand if a private bank needed to take a hit so that a country didn't need to pay large amunts of interest on a loan.

"The initial response to the developing-world debt crisis was an approach centred on short-term measures to prevent debt defaults. The IMF and the World Bank provided loans that were conditional on borrowing countries’ following a series of structural adjustment measures. Those were designed to increase the productivity of their economies in the hope that such increases would enable them to resolve their problems."{4 Same, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt}

Oh... so the IMF stepped in to... help... the country not default on a private laon. Well, ok, that's probably good, I guess maybe some creditors are better to deal with than others. But what's this thing about "structural adjustment measures"? The article doesn't have anything else on this, but there is a link to an article titled "Austerity" which might help:

"During Argentina’s economic crisis in 1998–2002, the country adopted severe austerity measures, largely following the advice of its major creditor, the International Monetary Fund (IMF); they included cuts in government pensions and salaries and in numerous social programs, as well as significant tax increases. In return, the IMF agreed to extend a low-interest loan to the Argentine government to help its ailing economy."{5 https://www.britannica.com/topic/austerity}

Ok... that doesn't sound too great actually. Maybe I made a mistake following that link. I'll search the encyclopedia for "structural adjustment IMF," see what turns up.

"In the late 1980s Egypt’s economy suffered markedly from falling oil prices and was further weakened by a drop in the number of remittances from its three million workers abroad. In spite of a rising debt burden, the government continued to rely heavily on foreign economic aid, leading to growing interference by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Egypt’s economic policies; in 1991 the Egyptian government signed the Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program with the IMF and the World Bank. The country’s currency, the Egyptian pound, had to be devalued several times, interest rates were raised, and subsidies were lowered on food and fuel. These policies especially harmed the poorest Egyptians, who often looked to Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood for assistance. "{6 https://www.britannica.com/place/Egypt}

Huh.

"Under pressure from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) to reverse the growth of government spending, liberalize prices, encourage a more open investment code, and provide incentives to agriculture and forestry, the Central African Republic submitted to a structural adjustment program in 1986."{7 https://www.britannica.com/place/Central-African-Republic/Economy}

Government spending, like education and medicine?

"For more than a year, financial markets had responded with trepidation to the debt crisis that had escalated for the so-called “PIGS” (Portugal, Ireland, Greece, and Spain) countries, as the EU and IMF called for the enactment of austerity measures in those countries and provided financial bailouts for Greece and Ireland, primarily to preserve the stability of the euro."{8 https://www.britannica.com/place/Italy/Italy-from-the-1960s}

Europe?

"At first, international agencies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, as well as Mobutu’s allies in the West, turned a blind eye to his personal appropriation of the economy and the associated declines in productivity and exports. The fall in copper prices in the mid-1970s, however, led to audits of state enterprises that revealed high levels of embezzlement. Nonetheless, Mobutu remained an important Cold War ally for Western countries, and for the next 20 years international financial institutions and his Western allies continued to find ways to keep the sinking economy afloat."{9 https://www.britannica.com/place/Democratic-Republic-of-the-Congo/Economy}

What.

"The economy responded with a relentless decline. Exports fell, inflation rose, and debt was significantly expanded. Debt services took more than half of the country’s export earnings, and imports nearly ceased for lack of foreign exchange. ... Under these adverse conditions the country’s infrastructure and social services deteriorated greatly. The rural population was reduced to subsistence levels, bartering with cattle and bags of paddy. Bankrupt by 1982, the country was forced to adopt a program of structural adjustment imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and face a humiliating turnabout to re-liberalize the economy. Abolition of the state monopolies was accepted, and any state enterprise that could not pay its way was threatened with privatization."{10 https://www.britannica.com/place/Madagascar}


Oh. 

Well, I'm glad I wasn't reading leftists, I'm sure they would have had alot nastier things to say.
