# Kafka's Dog
& 2022-3-3

I was visiting my younger sister, and I had to entertain myself each day until she was off work in the evening. By the second day, I was bored enough to visit the library, though I didn’t know what to read. I walked through endless rows of fiction. I passed the Ks and saw a few collections of Kafka. _You haven't read enough Kafka_ said a small voice in my head. _One must read their Kafka_. I gritted my teeth and took a book to a desk in the corner.

The book was _Investigations of a Dog and Other Creatures_. These stories were published posthumously, I learned. Kafka wanted these stories burned, I noted with interest. Still, I pushed on. I read _Investigations of a Dog_. In the story, a dog narrates her dog life. Early in her dog life, she happens upon a troupe of circus dogs practicing a routine. They dance. They do tricks. They do degenerate things, like stand on their hind legs. But our narrator doesn’t understand. She sees dancing but doesn’t know why. She hears music but doesn't know from where. She can't see the human trainers. She doesn't notice them—forgive me—barking out commands. This mystery starts our dog on a quest for truth. She asks many questions. Our dog asks: what are these voices we hear from above? And she asks, scientifically: where does our food come from? It's something dogs have always wondered about. "It's the main object of our research," she says. The rule which every dog knows is: "Wet everything as well as you can." She's talking about piss! I thought. Hilarious, I thought. "What the ground needs from us is our water, which nourishes it," she says. Poor thing, I thought. She can’t see us humans putting out food for her. She's asking all the wrong questions. She'll never know where food comes from, I thought.

A fire alarm went off in the library, and though everyone knew there was no fire in the library, we all shuffled outside into the rain. I left my Kafka at its desk, where it belonged.

I walked through the rain. I thought about Kafka’s dog. I asked myself a few questions. Where does the rain come from? No, that’s too easy. We once wondered that. We came up with fantastic stories. But now we know. In the end, it wasn't beyond us. I tried again: what is consciousness? That's better, I thought. This one might be beyond us, I thought. Maybe it’s impossible for a conscious being to understand conscious be-ing, I mused. Maybe there's no mirror to exam ourselves with. Maybe the proper questions will always be just on the tip of our tongue. I looked around in raptures. I stared wide-eyed at my hands. What around me was hidden for lack of the proper question? I thought. Just like Kafka’s dog, I thought.

And then I looked down at my shoes. Where did my shoes come from? The shoe store, I thought. But I hadn't bought these shoes. These shoes had been a gift. Actually, I don't remember the last time I went to the shoe store! I had been receiving shoe gifts for so long, I thought, I had forgotten the shoe store. The epistemological situation was worse than I imagined. I quickened my pace. I hurried to my nearest shoe store. I entered the shoe store. Ah, shoes! I thought. Now I can be sure of where shoes come from. The sweet certainty of empiricism. I saw all sorts of shoes. I saw big shoes and small shoes. Shoes with laces and shoes with straps. Colorful shoes and shoes that meant business. Shoes with lights and shoes with wheels. Soft and hard shoes. Short and tall shoes. I even saw sandals. Yes, I thought: now I know where shoes come from.

# Fables
& 2021-11-13

### The Cube
A friend showed me an architectural model they made on their computer. The model is a square, with a bit of depth, floating in the darkness. The surface of the square is covered in sand and a few leafless trees. In the center there is a square hole dug into the sand, and at the center of the hole is a large cube made of concrete. There is a miniature person who has stopped next to the hole and is contemplating the cube.

### The Dioramist
I visited a man who makes dioramas. When I came to his house, I rang the doorbell. Inside played a miniature version of Bach’s second Brandenburg Concerto, and above the doorbell button popped out a miniature concert hall full of animated wooden figurines, a small orchestra playing their instruments. 

When the dioramist answered the door we said hello to each other, and I followed him down the hall past many rooms. I saw dioramas of famous battles and historic meetings, but also idyllic and domestic scenes. My favorite diorama was of a group of cows in a green valley defined by purple mountains. The morning sun shined lazily as their sleepiness wore off, and some had even begun munching the grass which swayed dreamily in the gentle wind. 

“Do you have one of me?” I asked, and the dioramist said “yes, this way,” and we walked for a few minutes down the halls. We reached a room with a few dioramas, and I recognized scenes from my life. One of them was of me as a young child, in a train passing through Spain. The train chugs gently on its tracks, and miniatures of me and my sister and my mother and her uncle sit drowsily in the green, brown and golden light, contentedly watching the sunsetting countryside pass by. Next to that scene was one of us in an old city, nearly empty, full of gray stone buildings with windows framed in light woods, and with a castle at its peak. We are all there, at a fair, crashing into each other in miniature bumper cars. I look flustered. 

### Two Sisters
When I closed my eyes, I saw two sisters, tall and elegant in dress, walking through a city that was burning to the ground. I knew I was these two sisters, or at least that I was one of them, though I didn’t know which one. Then I was an old man, dozing in a seat in a stone chapel domed with clear glass. I was dreaming confused and delirious dreams about two sisters.

### The Little Toy Tank
I walked into an empty room in my house and found a little toy tank. I examined the green toy and wondered where it had come from. It then began to move around the wooden floors in a pattern, repeating itself many times. I found a piece of chalk and tied a string to it. Then I pinned the tank down with a finger and tied the piece of chalk to it so that the chalk dangled off its back and dragged on the ground. I let the tank go to drive through its patterns. The chalk lines it drew, at first faint, eventually spelled: A U S. I wondered what this meant. The tank then broke from its pattern and drove toward one of the walls where a miniature city, which I had never seen before, was quietly puffing away. The tank drove into the city and disappeared from sight.

### The Birds
I was watching a nature documentary. At one point I saw four birds, with red and blue plumage, all males, organized into a band for the purpose of perfecting a coordinated dance routine. They practiced their dance for months, and when they were ready they performed for a female bird. Lined up on a branch, the bird on the left jumped up and hovered to the right, while the other three birds scooted left, and took its place at the right end of the line. The bird now at the left end of the line performed the same motion, jumping up and hovering to the right end of the line and then shuffling to the left as the next bird performed the same, waiting for its turn to once again move from the left end of the line to the right end of the line. The movement was constant: a line of birds shuffling itself in an inexorable leftward motion, not stopping but replenishing itself, continuously moving horizontally on a branch.

### Oscar Freire
Once I was walking with some people down a residential street lined with short apartment buildings. As we were walking, we heard drums start up and keep a steady beat, and then a guitar ring out dreamily, fluid as water and flowing out over the rhythm, sailing in waves. We walked for a minute down the street, seeming to float, doing nothing else but listening to the band play through their changes, climbing higher and higher into their music. We stopped in front of a barbershop and one of my group gossiped with the barber. A man parked a large car on the opposite side of the street and stepped out, straightening his polyester vest over his large body. He looked around, began crossing the street, approached us slowly and asked: "Do you know Oscar Freire?"

### The Man Outside
Late one night I was woken by my dog barking. I got out of bed and opened my front door to see what the matter was. In a suit and bowler hat, carrying a suitcase, there was, standing on the lawn in front of my back gate where my dog nervously barked and growled, a man staring at my dog. I watched him for an hour, and in that entire time he did not move, but continued staring at my dog, who continued barking. I went back inside and slept uneasily until dawn. When I woke, I went again to my front door, and my dog was weakly growling at the man in the bowler hat, who hadn’t moved from his position. The sun rose over the front lawn and my dog was reduced to nervous whimpering under the man’s stare. Eventually my dog became silent and stared out the gate, back at the man. After a minute the man turned around and walked away.

### The Music Box
I went into our family attic on a sunny spring day, and in a dusty chest I found my mother’s music box. Inside the music box was silver heart-shaped locket that when opened revealed opposite pictures in sepia of my late grandparents. The music tinkled out gently and repeated, bringing memories over me. The song was something that mother often sang to me, now almost a lifetime ago, about a prince who was told by an oracle to go into the woods and find an apple. After many days in the woods, which were blue and green and golden, he meets someone who he becomes very close to. One day, after months of living with his friend, they lead him to a tree in a clearing. The tree has a single crimson apple, which he picks, and when he turns around his friend is gone. He never sees them again, the apple rots, and he forever wonders if he misunderstood the oracle. The music tinkled more slowly and unevenly until it stopped, and I put the music box back into the chest.

### The Television
I was walking with someone, and we happened on a room with a television. We sat on the seats in front of the television, which was playing a looped sequence of images. Some of the images were: a clear glass teapot with a large purple flower inside; a citrus wedge, green on the outside and orange on the inside; ocean water receding past coarse sand and pink shells; three men blowing long horns on a green hill; an old lakeside town with purple mountains rising behind it, their tips red with the setting sunlight; a massive wave crashing slowly into itself like a moving glass sculpture; a desert plateau, still red with light but surrounded on all sides by blackness; water being poured into a wine glass full of golden oil; a canoe gently swaying on a sparkling river.

### Dog People
When I was younger I wrote a song called _Dog People_ that is about a dog-like people living in their world. A giant dressed in feathers and palm leaves walks around on this world, bringing fertility to wherever it steps, and the dog people worship the giant as their god. The dog people grow yams and eggplants and they have harvest festivals with extravagant feasts in honor of their children. One day the dog people discover, by a strange sign, that they are living inside of a computer program, that their god is part of the computer, and that their very selves may be nothing but a computer simulation. The dog people experience a deep crisis and many commit unspeakable acts. In the final lyrics of the song, the narrator reveals and then repeats, for over a minute, that it, the narrator, is the computer program.

### The Cross
I was listening to a song that was about a person listening to tiny people living inside of them. I closed my eyes and imagined a variation of what I heard. I imagined the interior of a body, a red tunnel deep in the flesh, like a miniature cavern. A cross was hanging from the ceiling. The cross had a face, it was laughing and joking, and its eyes closed when it smiled. It was so small that it was made of a single molecule, and it was waiting for another molecule to arrive with which to chemically react. I felt that by thinking correctly I could effect this reaction, and that effecting the reaction would be like flipping a switch which when flipped would make my life imperceptibly better.

I looked out the window towards the sky, and the sky was latticed.

### Two Paintings
I was at an art museum and I saw a strange painting. The painting was of a hand holding a small golden goblet. Behind it is a golden sphere suspended on a string hanging in the middle of a small room, painted white with green and red accents. The room is a miniature room, like of a diorama, and in the center is a white unicorn on its hind legs, neighing at the ceiling. Somewhere there is a basket of oranges.

I also saw a small diorama hanging on the wall, with a multicolored bouncing ball on a pedestal, surrounded by a repeating tiled wall and a caption that said: MUSEO. This reminded me of a painting I saw once but never again, though I looked for it. The painting was of a man visiting the office of a man who sat at a dark wooden desk. Behind the man at the desk is a wall with a pattern on it which repeats. The painting is entirely realistic except for the pattern on the wall, which repeats so perfectly, without changes in shade, that it seems to float just above the painting. Simply by the surreality of the pattern it was obvious that a dream was being depicted.

### The Big Brown Bird
When I closed my eyes I saw myself and another person standing beneath a big brown bird, towering over us. Directly above our heads was a thick needle which ascended into the bird. The needle carried a richly hued and multicolored substance which flowed between us, and which I knew was stories and information in liquid form.

### The Fountain
At the center of gravity of the entire set of humans, a point which usually doesn’t correspond with the center of the earth, there is a chamber with a fountain where our water endlessly flows. In quiet moments I can close my eyes and enter the chamber, where I feel heavy with the water of humanity, which never stops creating water for itself and everything around it. The water flows down from us and through the earth and rock until it reaches the chamber of the fountain, where it is recycled to be used again.

### The Handkerchief Ghost
When I closed my eyes I saw a handkerchief ghost with purple button eyes, a toy my aunt made that I used to love. The ghost was in a large boiling pot with vegetables: green beans and purple eggplants chopped into pieces. I floated in the air around the pot, which was under a membrane like a tight, curving skin with many peaks and valleys. To outsiders the membrane hinted at nothing of what was happening beneath it, the ghost and the pot. The membrane was important to me, or maybe a part of me.

### The Water
One day a column of water fell from the sky into the valley below. On the first day we could walk around it on dry land because the water was absorbed into earth. The column was not thin; it was half a minute's walk thick. Some people stood around the column, discussing in small groups what it could mean. No one understood it. Some people put their hands in it. Back on our hill, the evening clouds cleared and we saw the column extend without end into the orange and black sky.

The next day the ground drainage was exhausted and a pool started to form. The pool extended and rose, at first quickly, but then slowly as it covered larger areas of the valley. In a few years the water will reach our houses, which we'll leave. Then the water will overflow the bowl of the valley into surrounding valleys, and the water will flow into them until they too are filled.

### The Folded-Up-Snake-Machine
The folded-up-snake-machine is a green and yellow toy snake folded up into a triangular prism shape, and the shape is filled with wheels and gears and other bits. The toy snake wriggles and pulses as the gears turn. It rolls forward slowly; it’s been rolling forward for a long time.


##########
# Giant Rhubarb
& 2021-11-5

I was walking with a friend through San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park. We walked through a section that had many ferns, including tree ferns, which I don’t normally see. Passing a pond we saw a plant with giant leaves and a cone shaped protrusion, and a wispy pink inflorescence at its center. I had no idea what it was.

! Rhubarb1.jpg

The next day I decided to come back and learn the name of the plant. I took some pictures of it and sat down to search on my phone. Eventually I identified it as _Gunnera tinctoria_, which is giant rhubarb, also know as Chilean rhubarb. It is not closely related to rhubarb. The cone shape holds flowers. The wispy pink part, which is slimy to the touch, is not an inflorescence but a collection of young leaves, some of which will green and expand. In this picture you can see green leaves maturing out of the dense pink.

! Rhubarb2.jpg


##########
# A New History of Flowers
& 2021-8-6

A colleague of mine at Bunker Hill Community College showed me an exceptional student essay, submitted as a term paper (for Philosophy 101!). I chatted with the author and we agreed to publish it on my blog, since the style is right up my alley. And I _love_ flowers.

!! A New History of Flowers.pdf !! You may click here to download the essay.


##########
# The Earliest Life on Earth
& 2021-7-22

_We’ve all forgotten the Great Angelinian Controversy, but on sleepless nights I still contemplate how Prof. Sampson Burk (USC), at the absolute peak of his career, wrote a poem about his "controversial" discoveries. I post the poem here on the 10th anniversary of its publication in_ Nature _(!) as a tribute to the ineffable creative powers of humanity._

### The Earliest Life on Earth

// I published // A major work // On ancient // Microbiology. // No one expected // Earlier life // “That life we knew // Was early enough // As it was” // They said // “But fossils // Never lie” // Countered I

// The earliest life // Was orange // I think, // Like an orange // With soft molding // It had blue spots. // It wasn’t eusocial // But more primitive; // Eu-eusocial // I called them

// They grew // In mounds // Like stromatolites // But more elaborate, // The mounds were like // Miniature cities. // I discovered one // In my backyard // That resembled // Los Angeles // In layout, // At least

// It was laid out // On a grid // With skyscrapers // And a few parks. // There was // Public transit // But only one // Bus a day, // And billboards // For things like // Anaerobic // Yoga classes

// They did not have // Sales tax; // They were a // Simple species. // They funded // Public works // By pledging // Their first mitosis

// “What does it // All mean” // A colleague // Asked, worrying // Even as my // Discoveries oblivioned // Old sciences: // Bacteriology, // Anthropology, // And birthed entire // Worldviews overnight

// “It means that” // Said I, // Confident in the // Scientific method // “Our world // Could not have been // Otherwise. // The miniature // Has tents // On skid row. // Even the Bank // Of America tower, // So ugly, // Has its miniature // Proving it was // Inevitable”


##########
# The Prince of Nevada City
& 2021-7-20

In Nevada City lived a man known as the Prince of Nevada City. On the 20th of September of the year 2019, he was the central figure in what became know as The Fire of York Street, which neither was a fire nor, according to reliable sources, did it happen on York Street. Four days later, The Prince of Nevada City, birth name Elliot Brody, was reported missing to the Nevada County Sheriff’s office. Two days later an informal search party combed through the local woods, and a man with scuba gear even dived through Dead Chinaman's Lake. The search, however, was cursory, as everyone involved knew that Elliot Brody had evaporated like a morning frost, or was mopped up like beer spilled at the Mine Shaft Saloon on Broad Street, or, better, had seeped into the ground like vodka spilled by highschoolers in some narrow alleyway in Grass Valley.

Brody was an intelligent young man, quick witted, with plenty of raw talent (as was said of him while a teenager), a truly creative person, people said, and it was also said of him that he was gay, at least by those that knew him well and those that didn't know him at all. Before he entered high school, he traveled to Williamstown, Massachusetts to attend writing camp, a trip entirely funded by the late James Sutter III, of the Sacramento Sutters, who had taken an interest in the young Brody. In the short stories he wrote for the workshops taught by Williams professors Brody explored the humor of fate, with long chains of neutral and seemingly unrelated events that would spiral out of control and result in catastrophe. An example of the type of story he wrote: a man forgetting to tie his shoelaces before taking a morning stroll would trip and bump into the Cola man carrying a crate full of empty soda bottles, one of which would drop and roll down the street for an unwitting pedestrian to roll their ankle on and fall into an open manhole.

Like most young writers his potential for a writing career was frustrated, but the details of how this happened are still sometimes debated by the people of Nevada City, and occasionally by the people of Truckee, when a late night of cheap wine has forced the telling of older stories that everyone’s already heard. Some say his benefactor, after a swift reversal of personal fortunes which did not affect the Suttons at large, had stopped supporting his education, which doomed Brody to the public schools of Nevada County, rivaled in their mediocrity only by the public schools in Placer County. Others say that the suicide of a would-be lover, a relationship which was literary but which promised to become more, pushed Brody into the hard drugs which floated around the Gold Country youth like dandelion seeds caught in an unending wind, describing arcs which are the peripheries of our understanding. Still others say he was involved in a racing accident in Humboldt which left him with only half his wits, but those closest to him know that it was only that peculiar rudderless egotism, found in all young creative men, which doomed him from the start.

He left Nevada County under mysterious circumstances in his early twenties, and when he returned a decade later he kept a low profile, staying in the best room at the Holbrooke, and within a month had purchased a choice property only two miles outside downtown Nevada City which, it was said, was once owned by the Brody's and lost to a California bank in the financial aftermath of the fire of 1856. From that point on Brody could be seen every evening on Broad Street in his finest, typically a light gray or brown suit which was strangely appropriate for the atmosphere, a fact which owed much to Brody's grace and class, two things not found in short measure among the evening strollers of downtown Nevada City.

Brody would pass the evenings engaged in low-intensity schmoozing with the town gentility. He would often leave a general tab open at the bar, covering everyone's drinks for the night, of which word would spread until everyone out on the town would eventually stop by for a drink on Brody. At Friar Tuck’s he was regularly seen with large parties, upwards of twenty people eating lavishly on his dime. On the weekends when he threw parties, downtown was conspicuously devoid of teenagers, all of whom were at the historical Brody estate deep in a collective binge. On those Sundays the downtown bums and drifters too would be missing.

Brody's parties were known for their debauchery but also for their range. A Thursday evening affair could be a dazzling display of glinting champagne glasses, with appearances from both downwardly mobile local magnates and new money entrepreneurs. The following Saturday could see a rave hosted, grimier than any held in the abandoned factories of Manchester or Chicago. Occasionally he hosted for Super Bowl Sunday, and the local Knitting Society was known to hold their monthly mixers in the main house's dining hall. A giraffe or two had been spotted in the backyard during one particular summer pool party, and not a few young people earned summer spending money performing depraved tricks for wealthy partygoers eager to show their worth.

The older women who stroll main street, dressed as they are in casual witch attire, most of whom claim to have been at Woodstock, prophesied Brody's downfall. In the dark corridors of their gossip, where still remembered is every time a woman was raped at one of Brody's debauched functions, they shared a collective vision of hubris and ambition which could only lead to a single outcome. Their prophesy, which was accurate down to the clothes worn (or not worn) by the participants, has been lost to time and rumor, just as the events now known as The Fire of York Street have been endlessly butchered by word-of-mouth retelling, the original witnesses lost in a deluge of people pretending to have been there. The only details which all accounts share are these few: Brody ended the night nude, crying and covering his manhood as he ran in the direction of his estate; a pair of barber's scissors were found atop a pile of lustrous black hair, the owners of which are still unknown; a child had an epileptic seizure (although this last detail is now held to be unrelated to the main events).

A few days later, according to court documents, the entire Brody estate had been entrusted to a financial instrument set up for the express purpose of liquidating it, the proceeds of which would go to one Albert Stanton, who attended the same high school as Brody, and who at the time resided in Portland and was wholly unaware of his windfall. The Nevada County Police Department, taking matters into their own hands, procured a warrant for the residence and found, among several unfinished manuscripts, letters which at the time were thought to resemble suicide notes, but which later were understood to be part of an imaginary correspondence with a physically abusive lover, who, given their generic name, has not yet been confirmed as a living person.

A few months ago, at Jernigan's, someone returning from a business trip to Sydney claimed to have spotted Brody at the Langham Hotel bar, and possibly later strolling the harbor around the Opera House. Some might have believed the teller when he told it, but shortly afterwards stories of Brody sightings began to crop up and multiply like backyard thistle. One person claimed to see Brody exiting the State Capitol in Sacramento. Another saw Brody in a dive bar in Grass Valley, playing pool. Yet another spied him while on a family trip to Rome, gazing up in wonder at the vaulted ceiling of the Pantheon with a notebook in his hand. The only thing that can be said for sure about Elliot Brody, the Prince of Nevada City, was that he embodied one of the few and deepest truths about the people of the California Gold Country, a truth which is often whispered late at night by weary drivers to gas station clerks, or spoken in hushed tones by teenagers in empty playgrounds, or by waitresses to each other inbetween coffee refills, making sure that their diners don't hear their words, lest they suddenly over breakfast realize the meaning of their lives.


##########
# Two stories about the deer in Blue Forest
& 2021-6-19

There is a story about the Blue Forest, which you are familiar with, about when the first deer stepped out of the pines. Steph, who was a woman in the middle of her life, as is said, climbed onto the first deer and was taken into the forest. It was a bitterly cold winter, and the forest was truly blue this year, and everyone had given Steph for lost, but on a day when the streams were already thawing, two deer stepped out of the pines. And the following year there were also two fawns. 

What I always found curious about this story is how we and the forest came first (but the forest before us), and then the deer, as if the deer was an ambitious animal from a foreign land, or just now born in the forest through an opaque process, or better, an answer, or a solution to our intractable relationship with the forest, the deer existing somehow to reconcile us. But we don’t know much about the deer. I wonder what my parents, when they were young and learning, thought the deer were doing. Maybe they imagined the deer writing, grasping a pencil in their hooves, learning in deer school, telling stories around a fire. There are many children’s stories about the trickery of deer, cleverly dealing with their burden, which is the burden of living inside Blue Forest. The deer are portrayed as almost human, and always with tenderness and sympathy, or as heroes.

There are some other people not too far from us who in the spring enter the forest and play with the deer, which we would never have thought to do. And this will disgust you, but, under special circumstances, they eat deer, and it is said that the deer eat them. Let me tell you one of their stories, which you have not heard. It is about the first human, and one day she walked into the Blue Forest for the first time, and deer streamed out of everywhere, and they fell around her like a great river, so swift. And she was amazed and forgot she was a woman and began to run with the deer. The deer eventually disappeared and she woke up from being a deer and was human again. And that is why her children’s children run with the deer every spring.

I always think of the differences in these two stories.


##########
# Paranoid Reality
& 2021-4-26

Hill’s latest book points towards a possible history of the now-ubiquitous phrase (but you have to read the endnotes), including her corrective to Silva’s seminal work.

! paranoid-reality.jpg


##########
# A Girl of the North Shore
& 2021-4-13

On the north shore of lake Betun lived a young girl Oda with her father Odm. They only had each other in the world, because it was an ice time, and the rest of the Tun had moved to the warm south shore. On a hot day, Odm inexplicably died. Oda did not cry or speak, but instead walked into the waters of Betun. 

Her resolve to end herself was incomplete, so she swam for a long time, holding her breath for many weeks. The water became cloudy, and then thick and full of debris. With her pocket knife she cut through membranes to continue swimming. She swam through skin and teeth and cut through organs, and eventually fell out the eye of a giant, who lay bleeding and massive in a black void.

Oda stood up and noticed she was no where.

Enk, always a smile on its face, slipped out of the darkness and thought "there's always a game to be played." Enk asked Oda "my heart, why are you tearing out your hair" and Oda replied "something has been done which cannot be undone." Out of its pocket, Enk pulled out a Poc board and began arranging its red and yellow stones. Like all children Oda could not turn down a match of Poc, and she wiped her tears as she sat down to play with Enk.

The match was full of generosity and greed like all good matches of Poc. Enk refused to let the game end. The red and yellow stones danced on the board and the void was filled with wind, and the dancing also brought flowers, and the head of the giant became a snail which crawled away, and its body became the Purple Mountain.

When the board was beautiful they agreed to end the game. When Oda looked away from the board she saw she was in a meadow, beside a lake with a reed-thatched hut, and her father stood outside stoking the supper fire. She almost jumped and shouted, but caught herself, because she was no longer a young girl, and understood what a delicate situation she was in.

Oda went for a walk among the pines, and we don't know what she did. Enk slipped into the evening, laughing like lake reeds.


##########
# A day in the life of Jeffrey Epstein
& 2021-3-23

He wakes up early, in his own bed, puts on a bathrobe.

Strolls down the hall to his gym. Thirty minutes on the treadmill, some rowing. Quick cold shower.

His breakfast is ready for him, fresh orange juice, Eggs Benedict, reads the Financial Times, Wall Street Journal. 

His partner comes to says hi, gives him a quick briefing, who’s coming by in the afternoon. 

Gets on the couch, reads a book, fusses with his bracelet a bit.

Makes a few calls. Friends in Manhattan, quick update on his Caribbean properties. Business associates. 

Looks through the blinds, notices it’s a warm day, going to be humid. Has a light lunch on the patio. 

Recliner by the pool. He’s brought mineral water, continues reading. Glasses on, he looks studious. His forehead is twisted in concentration. 

A car pulls in through the front. Continues reading for ten minutes.
 
Gets up, slips into the spa, undresses. A masseuse is waiting for him. She’s new, a little nervous. He lies face down on the massage table. Later, he turns face up on the massage table. 

Gets up promptly, takes a cold shower. 

Has a quick chat with his partner. Goes out and meets someone by the pool. 

A few more phone calls. A servant gets takeout Chinese. Dinner alone, evening reading. Goes to his bed.


##########
# The Problem with Being Ankabi in today's amerika
& 2021-3-16

I was watching Grey's Anatomy with my sister, and I was interested in how often monologues happened. One character would give an emotional monologue, making an appeal to the other characters (and to the audience) and then after a few minutes another character would make a monologue. What's even more interesting is that monologuing characters were correct, as if the very fact they were monologuing made this Light of Divine Truth shine down on them. A spotlight of truth. It was a recent season, so it was talking alot about racism, exclusion in the workplace, little factoids that proved racism existed. One character, Donna, was monologuing about how Black people, on average, died more from CoViD, had higher turnover rates in the medical field, had higher obesity rates, etc, thus proving that a Black person in the US has a worse life than a white person. Then another character, Steven, was monologuing to his ex-wife, Stacy, about how she never really cared for him. He too was obviously correct in his observations.

Could you imagine if these kinds of monologues informed people's views of reality? But they already do, through Facebook and Twitter. On Twitter we have a list of monologues on social issues, and each one can easily be classified as correct or evil. When you read a correct monologue, the spotlight of Truth shines down on the tweet, and you understand instantly the complex social issue it's referencing. Good art is ambiguous, and doesn't tell you what’s good and what’s bad, it puts a contradiction in front of you and explores it. Which means good art thinks morally, it doesn't tell you what is moral, which is the same as taking a shit on morality. The Spotlight of Truth on Twitter encourages a sort of meme activism, where people present easily repeatable and sanitized ideas (memes), and then spread them zealously and shout at anyone who disagrees. And then one outcome of this is that meme activists hate good art because they literally can't process it because it doesn't tell them what's good and what's bad.

That's the front side of how The Spotlight of Truth works on Twitter. I think what happens behind the scenes is a sort of closing of ranks between activists. Basically, an activist claims to speak for a group of people, and their claim is valid if they have the proper abstract identity, like say a Persian-Ankabian-American can speak for other Persians (or Ankabians!) who live in the US, even if they've never talked to an Ankabian that they weren't forced to talk to during a family dinner. Nevermind if they've ever even been oppressed for being Ankabian. So an activist can put out really strong statements (as I did when I was younger) like "Phelastan is an exonym given to our country by cis-patriarchal greek colonizers. Never call an Ankabian a Phelasti." and other activists accept this (or they're called racist) and retweet this and maybe yell it at their racist uncle at thanksgiving dinner, and when that other activist posts something about the identity group that they have claimed, they expect other activists to return the favor, which is to nod their heads and retweet it and get angry when someone doesn't agree ("You need to check your privilege and listen to what ... tell you"). So it forms this web of authority of activists who underwrite each others claims to speak for certain demographics of people and they don't consider at all!!! that when I made that tweet I was fucking with them!! and its patronizing and frankly racist that they agree with whatever the fuck I say simply because I'm Ankabi-American.


##########
# Quote of the Day
& 2021-1-13

Today we have a quote by one of the greats, Chilean author Laura Ruiz Riquelme, well known for her “academic fictions.”

"" Scholarship is tedious, and assembling evidence to prove a point is tedious. If I want to communicate an idea, I put it in the mouth of a fictitious author, and fabricate some criticisms to add nuance.

Because of her liberal attitude towards truth, she has often been accused of trivializing weighty subject matter, and also of “making dumb jokes.”


##########
# The Double Movement
& 2020-12-15

The so-called “Double Movement” is not a movement as such, something I get asked about all the time. It's alot more exclusive than a movement, since the participants are made up of maybe a few dozen musicians, most of them (it is rumored) from Los Angeles, split into two camps, that only communicate with each other.

It started with an old Billy Strayhorn tune (one which the composer threw away), covered in a video, titled _Abstraction #1_, uploaded to Vimeo, which made the rounds on online jazz forums. If "covered" is the correct word, since what the musicians did (all of them with their backs turned to the camera) was more like boil down the tune into a few core melodic themes and rhythmic motifs, the result of which was as beautiful as it was sparse. Whereas the original was unmistakably a classic jazz tune, the cover, so freed from harmonic structure, suggested several different styles at once, or maybe none at all. 

In an obscure but now infamous set in a small oyster bar in West Hollywood, a small band, jokingly announcing themselves as "Concrete," played five distinct and fully fleshed out versions of _Abstraction #1_. The few patrons of the bar who knew anything about music have attested to the exquisiteness of the interpretations. While none of them sounded like the original tune, they did to _Abstraction #1_ the reverse of what _Abstraction #1_ did to Strayhorn: they reconstructed it. The performances are lost to time, but the five pieces were described by one observer like this: two of them sounded "more like string quartets than anything else," another was an instrumental country music piece but with a three voice canon, the fourth was ambient music with a repetitive AB form, and the last was I quote "impossible to describe as a genre or style."

Almost lost, but not quite, since, for reasons yet unexplained, a few weeks later appeared _Abstractions #2_, _3_, _4_, _5_ and _6_, which those present at the original Concrete concert attest to being faithful deconstructions of the five tunes played. Of course, another concert by Concrete followed, this time well publicized and attend by a few dozen people (the _Abstractions_ were now being widely and enthusiastically shared online), with stunning results. Only five pieces were played, the whole set lasting a scant 32 minutes, the re-constructions of the five new _Abstractions_ of the original five Concrete interpretations. The pieces have been variously described as "stupefyingly joyful" and "grotesque," a "revival of late 19th-century American folk and dance" and "the most banal interpretations of Austrian synthesizer music I have ever heard" (a not unjustified comment), and it is said that at least one sub-genre of guitar music was coined that night, but I won't bore you with the details since the recordings are available online.

_Abstractions_ 7 through 11 were released shortly after, and this went back and forth for some time, artistically peaking around _Abstractions_ 17 through 31 (and their subsequent re-constructions by Concrete) which are now somewhat standard in east-coast conservatory curricula. This first iteration lasted until _Abstraction #56_ and its concretization, when the two camps (now with large and rotating groups of musicians), through an unknown medium of communication, agreed to call it quits. The next iteration was a tune by Louis Armstrong, which lasted about twelve rounds of back and forth, this time in single, long-form pieces lasting around 15 to 25 minutes. The third iteration was an Appalachian folk song, and so on until today, currently at iteration number eighteen, all of which has been documented thoroughly. 

A few commentators on the matter, no doubt philosophers, have compared the back-and-forth Double Movement between the two groups to a sped-up version of a music scene, or the slow dynamics of music progressing across history, or even the inventive spirit of early Bebop, which forever expanded the boundaries of pop music. Such interpretations are instantly seen to be false when one looks at the final rounds of any iteration. Each iteration, lasting between 10 to 15 rounds of back-and-forth, invariably ends in a completely sterile music with no formal structure, little dynamics (only fading in at the beginning and fading out at the end), dominated by repetitive cells of rhythms. At this point every musician is either playing a percussion instrument, or playing percussion on their instrument, and it is impossible to tell the _Abstractions_ apart from the "concretes". If this is the eventual fate of a highly intentional artistic endeavor premised on, in turn, distilling and then developing an idea, it must be a wholly different beast than the spontaneous dialectic of history or a movement of art, and more akin to the entropic heat death of our universe. The difference being that, like God, the musicians may choose to start anew whenever their world has become sterile.


##########
# Christ and the Duck
& 2020-12-7

### Note from the Editor
It has been a strange and exhilarating year for _Archimboldo Studies_, one which has seen a renewed public interest in the great painter. Our last issue saw two major analyses of newly discovered paintings by Martijn Verbeke (_Arch. St._ LXII 2, Nov 1998, "The Great Duck Collage", and "The Duck's on the Other Foot"), followed closely by highly publicized discoveries which would scandalize the art world. Other publications may have succumbed to the spectacle, but in this special edition on Verbeke we focus on new and rigorous insights on the Flemish painter's stylistic and formal influences on Archimboldo.

Little is known about Martijn Verbeke (app. 1491-1543), a relatively minor figure who nonetheless found favor among the House of Habsburg, both for his wit and his novel court portraits. The largest number of extant Verbeke works are of the extended Royal Family, in the expected regalia, but with duck heads instead of human heads, duck heads of all kinds, shiny and proud and sometimes smiling. His "amallardic works", as they are now called in the literature, consisting of less than a dozen pieces of typical court portraiture, evidence a deft hand for shadow and lighting like the old master Campin (whom Verbeke is known to have studied), but are otherwise unremarkable. Patrons far preferred their duck portraits and took great care in preserving them.

Of the newly discovered paintings, found nearly ruined in an inquisitorial building in southern Spain along with a veritable treasure trove of the artist's papers and sketches, the most relevant for Archimboldo studies is titled _Christ and the Duck_ (VWV 87), a massive mallard with a crown of thorns, crucified like Christ. Instead of having a duck's head and a human's body, it is a duck composed of various humans,  of all ages, sometimes with royal headdress and shoes but otherwise completely nude, in various excruciating postures and with agony on their faces. While the composite Christ is stoic, the gasping pain of the human elements creates an unmistakable effect, which would be recreated later by Archimboldo, but with infinite subtlety, in _Water_, with its crab, asphyxiating shark and small fish.

The task of the Archimboldo scholar today is to clarify Verbeke's influence on the Italian painter's composite portraits, a task made incalculably more difficult by the controversy, mainly fueled by news media, surrounding the Flemish painter's previously undiscovered dungeon-studio, about which we must, unfortunately, make a few passing remarks. An underground chamber in a Burgundian castle, known to be occupied by a minor branch of the Habsburgs who were enthusiastic patrons of Verbeke, was discovered full of human remains, rope, and, significantly, painting tools and supplies. While _Christ and the Duck_ shows little sign of being an actual portrait, Verbeke's studies for the piece, also discovered in Spain, suggest that he was in fact sketching actual humans which were contorted and suspended in air by means of rope and other instruments. It is at this point tantalizing but highly speculative to wonder if _Christ_ was in fact a portrait, its twenty-two half-dead subjects hanging from the ceiling, in a sprawling collage of meat, imitating the duck crucified and shining in the likeness of our Christ.

The one exception to the theme of this edition is "Archimboldo's Artichoke?", Beitz's botanico-historical study of _Vertumnus_, which casts doubt on whether certain vegetables could have possibly been known to the painter.

Eugene Witting
New Haven

! archimboldo-water.jpg


##########
# A Bunch of Things
& 2020-11-23

There is a duck toy, green and brown and yellow, shiny, with a slight smile

Next to it a chrome revolver gun toy, and a plastic cowboy hat

The ground is yellow and flat and the sky is pink

A little beyond that is a soda bottle, with a red cap and a red label, filled with brown liquid

A white vase painted with pretty blue fish

Many objects like these, shiny and new and separate. How did they all get here? 


##########
# The Lizard
& 2020-11-16

Things aren't what they seem, because with our human bodies it's almost impossible to sense the underlying reality. What happens in our lives is entirely determined by what happens on a different plane of existence.
The real plane of existence is an endless suburb, American style, with small one-story houses, each of them minimally furnished. We (our real selves) walk around in the rooms of these houses. Our appearance is the same as it is in this world. We walk from room to room, stand in a room for a while, then continue and walk into a new room and stand there for a while, and on and on.
Everything we experience in this world is a result of the sequence of rooms we visit, where both the order and the length of time we spend in each room matters. When we experience something, it is because a certain room-sequence pattern was performed. Every possible experience corresponds to a pattern. The free will we experience is an illusion, since it is only our movements through these rooms that determine anything. (Actually, there is a room-sequence pattern that causes us to have the feeling of free will, as there are patterns for everything we experience.)
There is also a petrified lizard which we sometimes carry from room to room. Sometimes you carry the lizard, sometimes someone else carries it, and when in that other plane you have the lizard, in this life you are blessed, and are successful in your endeavors, and the world watches you.


##########
# In the Garden
& 2020-11-9

Like a massive and deep note, the trees have always been here. The pollen floats orange and the flowers are swollen and sing chords that touch my face softly. I feel the grass between my toes, I feel like a hum on the lips of God.
Red juice pours down his blue skin, Gabaath with both hands eats a massive strawberry and looks at me with long white eyes. He could walk up and pull out my lung and eat it like a strawberry, instead he just watches from a distance.
On a branch a happy bird chirps. The bird has a beak.


##########
# Redistribution and Capital
& 2020-11-2

1. There is an excess of food produced in the US. That is, far more food is produced than is needed to satisfy the needs of everyone in the country. Much of it is thrown away. Further, if we stopped raising animal slaves for food, the excess food could feed entire foreign countries. This means that the problem of hunger has more to do with redistribution than it does with actual production. In an ideal world, we could redistribute produced food so as to disappear hunger and famine. 
2. This would be redistributing a real good, but the picture becomes more complicated with money. As a thought experiment, consider what would happen if we redistributed money so everyone in the country had an equal amount. Bank accounts would drain for the rich and fill up for the poor. But what societal effects would it have? Would it solve homelessness, hunger, the problem of working exhaustive and often pointless jobs? It could solve all these things, but since money is a political, rather than a real good, it would depend on the larger political situation. Money would stop meaning what it means now, unlike food which always means a full stomach.
3. This becomes obvious when we generalize from money to all forms of currency and capital. This includes money, stocks, bonds, but also things like machinery, land, buildings. Those last three things are real, but their ownership is abstract and legal. Food can be owned and consumed in a very tangible way, but not buildings or land. Who would own a factory? Those who had a right to be in it? What does that mean? As a moral prescription we can say “those that work in it”, or “the community it is located in”, but this is more abstract than owning an orange. And so what would happen if all capital in the US was equally distributed? Who would go to work, and where? How would land be farmed? Parks maintained? What about schooling and childcare?
4. The more abstract the thing being redistributed, the more the redistribution depends on politics. A redistribution of all capital in the US would require hundreds of thousands of new social institutions to emerge, new collectives, cooperatives, bureaucracies, boards, governments, even corporations. The powerful institutions of the US government would be drastically reorganized or liquidated to keep up with the change. 
5. Money and capital don’t usually present a real, physical power the way that food and guns do. Capital is latent power. When an individual or a firm is wealthy, the wealth is a latent power to buy the time of others, wether to serve you, to produce a commodity for you, or to serve you in producing commodities for sale (i.e. give you a job). It’s the power to get you early out of bed, into a car or train, to do as you’re told in an oppressive workplace for 9 hours, to get back home for rest, just to do it again the next day. This aspect of capital, the latent power to mobilize armies of laborers, is one of its most important aspects. Because it means that capital can organize society. 
6. This means capital is latent power because it mostly acts on the world as it is given away, or used up. You move a body by paying it, and by promising it pay in the future. That means that the social medium into which you redistribute money is important. A society in which all capital has been recently redistributed in an equitable way must necessarily have a different meaning of capital, and of what money can buy. 
6.1 Which is why redistribution is always done on more slowly. The US central bank is tasked with keeping inflation at around 2% annually, which they do partly by expanding the money supply, which meets business needs. While banks and businesses benefit from this, anyone whose wealth isn’t accumulating at a rate greater than 2% will see their wealth reduced. This is a slow and constant redistribution of latent social power towards employers and other societal organizers. For workers, it is a treadmill. 
7. Capital is the latent power to organize society, but it also is something which increases itself. This is done through discounting, which is buying something now that will be worth more in the future. That is, paying something now for a greater future revenue stream. So capital accumulates, but so does capitalization. That is, not only does capital grow, but so too does the ability to capitalize on it, and to capitalize on an increasing number of other things. A successful capitalist, whose capital is growing, finds better and more things to discount. 
8. That’s the personal scale, but capitalization also increase on the societal scale. Everyday more under the sun is available for purchase and profit. The crucial change, The Great Transformation, was the violent restructuring of Europe into money societies, a change since spread across the world. At the present rate, no human, no inch of land or natural resource will be left unavailable for discounting by capitalists.


##########
# A Machine
& 2020-10-26

“Let me show you around.”
I left my dripping umbrella propped up beside the door, took off my coat,  hung my hat. We walked down a long hallway, well lit. 
“If I gave a geometric description of a machine, would you understand its purpose?”
It wasn’t a question, I didn’t answer. 
“No, probably not. 
We passed many rooms, some dark and crowded, some lit, and filled with things.
“Here we are.”
We turned into a barren room, an unused fireplace, a single fluorescent light, green walls. On one wall was a row of hats. 
“Six hats. This is the source.”
The hats were plain and well used. Except for one, a bright and checkered jockey’s cap. I ran my fingers over them. The rough cotton, the felt and the silk. In the corner of my eye, the man looked at me, expecting something. He was dressed elegantly, yet reserved, better than I was. A servant. 
“Come.”
We walked again down the hallway and into another room, full of stacks of hats. 
“A transmission room. These are on their way somewhere.” 
Hats were stacked neatly, tall, according to which hats fit into each other. There were several dozen stacks, of all kinds, plain and decadent, hats which can be used, hats which served no purpose and hats which were not hats. After a few glances we left again into the hallway. 
We passed many such rooms, filled with stacks, and stopped in front of a large double door painted white. 
“The Mouth.”
He gestured and held the door open. I looked inside and there was nothing, it was bright and flat and painted white ceiling to floor. The door was closed and we continued, then leaving the hall, then taking several staircases and more hallways. 
Finally we stopped at a door, a small door, which he opened. 
“The young master’s room.”
The walls were covered in hats. In the corner was a small bed and a plain chair, no desk. There was nothing else but hats, but well organized, as by some logic. Turquoise hats and peacock feathers, masks made of leather, iron head cages, hats made of stone, a chefs hat, a little girl’s pink cowboy hat. 
“Please,” the servant nodded. I approached one hat in particular, with delicate frills, and many things grew off the sides. It had pictures and a small playground, a full meat interface. My fingers gently traced the hole, I blushed and looked at the servant. 
“The parents are not allowed inside.”
All of them hung on pegs, arranged on a grid, many pegs were empty. Shapes were formed and deformed, paths and flows between them, clusters with specific functions. 
“The young master spends all his time arranging and rearranging them. I am not sure who he is connecting to. He refuses the food I bring.”
I stepped back and took in the whole room, everything at once. My breath caught, and my mouth opened to the world. The world poured into my eyes and my mouth, which were both open to the world, and I stood there staring at the world, I stared right out of my face, and the world filled me. 
“You see it?”

! boy-with-machine.jpg


##########
# SHOWER MORALIZER (a play)
& 2020-10-19

### Characters
Ignacio- just a regular guy
Herbert- his buddy
Andy- a shower moralizer

## ~~Act I~~
### SCENE- a baptism party
Ignacio: And so I normally take a shower everyday, but I don’t always use soap. It depends on wh-
Andy: You what??? You don’t use soap?
Ignacio: *visibly upset* let me aks you a question. You take a shower every day?
Andy: Yes, of course
Ignacio: And people that take showers every other day, you think that’s gross?
Andy: Well, no, that’s fine. 
Ignacio: So what’s wrong with me takin a shower everyday but sometimes not using soap?
Andy: ...
Ignacio: Let me tell you something. 
Herbert: Tell em,  Ig. 
Ignacio: Let me tell you something, you’re a shower moralizer and you gotta work on not projecting your dumbass, petty ass showering philosophy on everyone. 
Herbert: Tell em. 
Ignacio: For  two-hundred-thousand years all of humanity showered infrequently, and now you fucking think, you think now we got fancy showers,  you trying to tell me I’m gross? Fuck?
Herbert: Tell em, Ig.
Ignacio: Take your fucking philosophizing, shower ass moralizing, get the FUCK outta here!
Herbert: Fuck outta here. 
Ignacio: Fuckin petty ass shower moralizers! Fucking sick of you people. 
Herbert: Fuck outta here. 


##########
# Writing and Speaking
& 2020-10-12

With a few symbols, I can write a mathematical equation which cannot in any way be solved, which will continue spitting out new values for an eternity, always resisting prediction.  
- 
There are no methods or genres which can categorize writing forever, a written work will always be in its own category, stubborn against explanation, but giving meaning whenever you ask for it. And we can’t commit ourselves to a program of futurism because we will always stubbornly incorporate the language of the present and past, no matter how naive or played-out. The 90s will continue to be revived for an eternity, and we can’t see when ahead of time. 
- 
Imagine knowing accurately the future. You would lose all illusion of agency, and know you are nothing but a rock tumbling down a mountainside, and you would know you are dead.  
- 
Listening to someone describe a story I may have read, I realized it resembled closely an idea I had which I until now assumed was completely original.  
- 
Your death really comes when your actions and words cease to have meaningful influence, that is, when there is no longer a society which speaks.  
- 
The world is partly made of language, because the only way we can know it, experience, is partly made of language. And there is a second reality, or maybe thousands of realities if you prefer, which are entirely made up of the stories that we tell each other, and this is like a heaven on earth.  
- 
There are some things which words can’t say, so thankfully we have music. 
- 
You can pick up a pen right now, and if God speaks to you, it’s possible to write something down that you never knew before.  
- 
We have all built an immense city of words, let’s explore it together and continue adding to it, and for thousands of years people will continue adding to it and generate meaning for each other. 
- 
All around us is a wilderness where our words and laws have no meaning. 


##########
# Under a Great Orange Tree
& 2020-10-5

Under a great orange tree I met a peculiar and cute creature, a peeled orange with head and feet, walking around like a small chicken. I felt both the appetite to eat it and the pity I feel towards small and lovely things. Later the groundskeeper said to me “that thing is not prey, but a predator. How could it be prey? Have you seen anything like it? Think how it made you feel, the pity and the desire.” I knew he must be right.  

Later, watching a man under the orange tree pet the thing, suddenly rose a green column of teeth, towering above him, the fleshy gums putrid yellow like a clam’s innards, and swallowed him whole in one bite. The teeth collapsed into the body of the creature, now bloated with meat in the afternoon sun. 


##########
# Power as Redistribution
& 2020-9-22

1. An important form of power is power as redistribution. That is, the ability to distribute necessary goods, like food, shelter, land, or a currency equivalent. The individual or organized body which redistributes gains power from that redistribution.

2. We say redistribution to emphasize that these goods have been acquired from the producers, and that they are being distributed again in a different manner. As an example, consider how a government taxes its citizens and then spends those same taxes every year, much of it on its citizens. 

3. Giving is better than keeping. We often think about institutions which extract goods from producers as parasites. And they are, but the redistribution is crucial. Because if the goods were instead extravagantly consumed by the institution, no power would result from it. The goods need to be passed on to some sort of dependent, or supporter, or employee. 

4. Other forms of power are power as force, like how someone might have power over you because of a superior weapon. Or power as status, where someone has power over you because they have more authority in a given community. Or power as law, which is the power to make rules, which is not the same as redistribution but is related, since the ability to redistribute goods is often conceptualized as a legal right to do so.

5. Let’s look at an example. A feudal lord extracts produce from peasants. The lord then distributes this to servants, retainers, and soldiers. The ability to extract goods, along with the ability to redistribute those goods, are the powers of the lord. The act of redistribution to a select number of people, always with strings attached, is crucial. It is a reorganization of resources to benefit an individual and his house. 

6. The U.S. government extracts trillions of dollars a year from the U.S. population, and then redistributes it through large bureaucratic mechanisms. A huge chunk of it is given back, in the form of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. A smaller chunk is given to the army, to army contractors, and to military researchers. Hundreds of thousands of bureaucrats are sustained through this tax money, including politicians (but they also take lobby money). Some makes its way to the private sector, in the form of subsidies, government contracts, and bailouts. Every financial crisis sees rivers of opulence flowing from the federal treasury into the treasuries of commercial and investment banks. Even favored foreign states get their share. 

7. Generalizing this, the entire economy is a great mechanism of redistribution. There are people (it seems like less every year) who produce necessary goods, such as food, clothing, housing, medicine. Others, regardless of what they do, whether they are administrators, politicians, teachers, musicians, engineers, shopkeepers, truck drivers- even someone who has nothing but leisure all day- all of these people rely on a system of redistribution to get necessary goods. Society is a giant redistribution network, and the nodes are the points where redistribution is decided. That is, where power is. 

8. This form of power, the ability to redistribute, is in a positive reinforcement loop with power as force. Redistribution is sometimes done in common, or is allowed by the consent of those who produce and otherwise participate in the redistribution. But much of the time it’s simply something imposed, which one has no say in, and which is protected by the actual violence of a police force. But the police rely on that very same redistribution for their income.

9. A smaller example is a corporation. The power they have over people is through wages. Or through bribes. If everything goes correctly, they can then accumulate more wealth through the efforts of their workers, which then gets redistributed either to higher wages, or to more employees, or to shareholders (whose function as investors is almost purely redistributive). Regardless, redistribution is a tool to increase the power of the firm. 

10. The accumulation of wealth is an accumulation of power only because of its potential to be redistributed. The way in which the wealth is distributed can make or break the power of the redistributor. 

11. An even smaller example is in the household. For decades the ideal of the male wage earner has subordinated women living in money economies. Generalizing this across previous economies, the ability to redistribute more wealth to adult males is constitutive of what we call patriarchy. 

12. Redistribution is old. The adults which harvested and cooked shared the children, the old, the disabled, healers and priests, warriors during times of war, and on and on. Many schemes of distribution and redistribution existed, organized through a mix of household, kinship and community, depending on the society. Storage and rationing were important. Certain goods were saved for certain needs, or maybe for certain celebrations. Power and responsibility were in the ability to decide on distribution. In some societies, charismatic leaders collected and then redistributed in feasts, opulent events of consumption. Some societies developed classes of administrators whose job was redistribution, the management of resources; some societies developed leisure classes. But we can’t say “the rest is history,” since it’s been shown by anthropologists that money economies, where money is at the heart of economic distribution, don’t pop-up spontaneously.


##########
# One-Way Holes
& 2020-9-15

1. There is a popular metaphor for DNA which goes like this: DNA is selfish because it tries to increase copies of itself. If it has certain patterns, those patterns might be expressed in some biological way which makes that DNA replicate more often. Other DNA patterns replicate less, so there tends to be less of them, sometimes even onto extinction. This sets up a scene where you have utterly lifeless, material things caught up in this self-reinforcing loop which ends up with the entire planet crawling with DNA. 

If you’re paying attention, you might say that we’re simply taking ethical concepts and using them to anthropomorphize the lifeless matter of DNA. But the more interesting thought is: what if the metaphor is closer to the truth? The way in which DNA, once it exists, seems to point in the direction of growth. What if this basic pattern is an abstract version of the way we experience the world? Then this metaphor would be us recognizing ourselves in a piece of us. When dead matter points in a direction, maybe this is where meaning comes from, the way that animals deeply feel that what they experience has a meaning. That an experience is “about something,” the way that a sound comes from somewhere, or that a sharp pain represents something happening to your body. Or for some animals: that life grows outwards towards a goal. 

2. There’s a Mula Nasrudin story where Nasrudin asks an admirer to make a hole big enough in his fence for his neighbor’s chickens to wander in, but small enough so that they can’t get back. Like most Nasrudin stories, you wonder if there’s knowledge hidden behind the silly absurdity, or if it’s just plain absurd. Or maybe that you’re absurd for thinking that you found knowledge in the silliness. 

It seems like a paradox, but you can construct all sorts of holes that a chicken might wander through but not back. Consider a hole that drops down into your yard, which would make it easy for a chicken to fall through, but difficult to climb back to the other side. Or maybe a hole that’s large and straight on your neighbors side, but small and crooked on your side. A chicken might easily wander through the large side, but once it gets out the other end, maybe it’s difficult to notice the way back in. 

3. Holes like these are actually everywhere. Cells use them to keep things in, and to pump things out. Many different ingenious orifices keep the delicate balance which cells need to survive, a delicately tuned machine.

Bureaucracies also use one-way holes to extract resources from other entities, like a foreign country. The holes are in fact cleverly designed social and legal mechanisms which induce a country’s leadership to continuously divert their country’s product to the foreign bureaucracy. The best example are the IMF loans that countries fail for decades to pay off.

The first case is closer to an actual hole, and the second one is more of an abstraction. Either way, the form is the same. Nasrudin’s one-way holes are a means to extract something, and to keep it in place for your benefit.

4. Sucking is a common one-way hole. When you suck a soda through a straw, you bring it up into your mouth, and down your throat. Gravity will then keep it inside of you, but there is also an elaborate series of sphincters which will make sure the soda doesn’t leave. This same pattern is that of the mosquito which sucks your blood, or the vacuum which sucks water off your floor, or a dehumidifying packet which sucks moisture from your seaweed snack. Thinking about it in this way, sucking is one of the most basic one-way patterns, since it always takes effort to either resist the sucking or reverse the displacement it causes. 

5. Another example of a one-way hole is photosynthesis. Light flies from the sun and strikes the leaf, where a chemical reaction occurs to convert the light into a more physical form of energy. Some light makes it out, including the beautiful green color which is rejected by the process. This allows the plant to organize itself, that is, to grow and be healthy. 

6. Is death a one-way hole? It seems to be portrayed that way in our stories. Like ghosts that haunt for an eternity, unable to resolve their problems because of their immateriality. And you can easily go to heaven or hell, but rarely back. At least this is reflected in the brute facts: once something is dead, it rarely becomes alive again. There is something which makes death irreversible, but what is it?

We also know that one-way holes are often developed by organisms. It’s an extraction tool. Is death an extraction tool? Whose tool is it? And what is being extracted?

7. Time is also a one-way hole. Once you pass through it, you can’t find your way back. We can ask the same question: is something being extracted? And by who? And how paranoid are we?

8. One of the simplest one-way holes are doors that lock. A door might lock on a childhood memory, or it might lock after a traumatic or formative experience. Some of us have never been the same after listening to a certain piece of music. Or being unable to see someone as we once did, after learning something about them. Meaning takes part in the games of doors that only open one way. 

The other side of this is that the meaning making process might have crossed a door that is now locked. There are certain forms of matter which form patterns that seem to point. A part of their strategy is to make doors that open and then lock, which is an arrow pointing in one direction. Does this process now have enough momentum to continue forever?


##########
# Notes on White Experience
& 2020-8-9

1. My dad has this story which for him summarizes the difference between Iranian and American culture. “My friend Max, who's Iranian, was married to an American woman. They’re divorced now. She would label her food in the refrigerator so that her children wouldn’t eat it.”

2. In an interview with New York squatters (from Midnight Notes’ The New Enclosures), I read the opinion that white cultural life in the US is totally dead, that it has been eviscerated, that it lacks the sort of community life that has been part of the human experience since humans showed up on this earth. The context for this comment was the rampant secularism which has destroyed a popular form of community life: being part of a local church, which other demographics have held on to better.

2.1 This is a broad generalization, church-going is still important for many white communities. Actually, many white curch-going communities often also see themselves in opposition to hegemonic liberalism. Think US Christian conservatism.

2.2 Me and my mother used to go to a local spanish-speaking church every weekend, a predominantly Latin American church in which she made some friends and found some community life. When we moved deeper into the richer suburbs, the only nearby church was an english-speaking one. She felt alienated and stopped going to church.

3. While living in Boston, the only time strangers actually payed attention to me walking down the street and casually greeted me was when I briefly visited a black neighborhood in Roxbury. People were actually spending time on the street rather than rushing by.

4. Capitalism has eviscerated white culture. White workers in Europe, as one of the raw materials for capitalism, had their common lands enclosed, and were forced into wage slavery by capitalists, transforming white community and social life. This destruction of white (and now pretty much every) community has continued through the present, as the modern economy forces an aspirational model of life which holds no bond or locale sacred. We are encouraged to move constantly for our work, jump from city to city, company to company, to live in largely anonymous cities, or completely atomized suburbs.

4.1 Although this model of work is imposed more on white collar workers.

4.2 As mentioned above, resistance to capitalism's evisceration sometimes takes the form of popular conservatisms. Consider country pop music. It has a very concrete language, with a well understood universe of images and metaphors: trucks, dogs, dignified labor. People who listen to country music understand themselves as positioned in a place, a community, with concrete values. By contrast, top 40s radio is often vague, conceptual, the metaphors are more generic. (Although the ascendence of rap in pop music challenges this a little.) 

4.2.1 These two poles of pop music (the hegemonic top 40s vs the alternative country pop music) mirrors liberal vs conservative politics. The liberals see themselves as cosmopolitan, universal; the conservatives understand themselves as located, as part of a specific community. (Although this isn’t true for politicians, who are all lizards.)

4.2.2 Counter to popular forms of resistance to liberal hegemony (e.g. country music, although I’m not trying to say it is predominently a form of resistance) is the liberal hunch that people who participate in it (listen to it) are parochial racists who support sexist, bigoted leaders. But so much of this discourse is handed down to people by the intelligentsia (who conservatives despise). But who’s more on my side? you should ask yourself: the liberal media elites or white working people? (This is not a rhetorical question.)

4.2.2.1 Conservative politicans are eating this up right now: liberals no longer make any pretenses of supporting white working class people. (Bernie might be an exception.)

5. My girlfriend, from Mexico, tells me that the reason we can date is that I am not a typical USonian in that I have and understand the structure of extended family. She also says that my mom, though she is from Spain, is not really white in the US, because of the particular form of whiteness in the US. My mom comes from a farming family, a dignified but working class form of living in mid-century Spain. A large family, she’s the 7th of 13 siblings.

6. For white Americans, culture has been so thoroughly eviscerated by the regime of wage labor that it’s hard to consider anything sacred.

6.1 Possibly this is the reason behind US theories of toxicity, of cancelling, even of gender deconstruction. All of these have complex origins (think: queer communities trying to deal with family members which hurt them; gender based alienation; black social media cancelling predatory celebrities) but it is interesting how strongly these politics have proliferated in the mainstream US. Maybe the utter desolation of white community life is a breeding ground for theories which tell you that you can cut any tie you have with anyone, that you can be anything you want.

6.2 This is also one of the roots of the appeal of US conservatism. Actually, conservatisms seem to pop out of conflicts with exploitative markets. Think the rise of fascism in Great Depression Germany.

6.2.1 Exploitative markets are a root of human expendibility. But we perpetuate it in our private lives.

7. My girlfriend talks about the growing critique in Mexico City politics of radical feminism. She claims it has become the mainstream feminism there, and so we are seeing a repition of what happened in the 80s in the US between radical and “third world” feminists (think Audre Lorde): Mestiza feminists are making an identity political critique of radical feminism, saying that it carries with it all sorts of white-coded ideas. One example is that of cancelling (“scratching”), the idea that you can remove men from your community because they have raped someone. This was common of student feminist groups while she studied at UNAM, and it is something which she and others have grown to be more critical of.

8. This is political fiction. I am speaking in generalities, as if “white US people” is a well defined and homogenous category. White experience is immense and multifaceted. My thoughts fail on so many different white communities. But I’m trying to explain part of white alienation which has been undeniable in my own life.


##########
# A Euphemism
& 2020-6-11

When reading about the International Monetary Fund, I keep seeing that they helped countries with their "balance of payment" problems. Jon Williamson, in a lament for the phrase "Washington Consensus,"{1} which he coined, speaks of a "balance of payment crisis," and how dealing with this through "Fiscal Discipline" was ultimately good for a country's poor people. If you can pay attention long enough, it's easy to figure out that "balance of payment problem" just means that a country has run up a large deficit in its accounts. But why were so many countries having this problem? It was usually glossed over.

So I decided to look for the answer on Encyclopedia Britannica's website. This is from an informative article titled "Third World debt":

"" The origins of developing-world debt crisis can be traced to the oil-price shock of 1973–74. At the time, the member states of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) limited the supply of oil, which resulted in a huge increase in its price. That had a significant impact on all importers of oil, including many newly independent countries in Africa. The excess profits that OPEC members received were then invested in the Western commercial banking sector.{2}

It seems like alot of money was flowing into private US banks. What next?

"" The banks then sought to find new borrowers to lend that money to. Developing countries, which were in need of development assistance to soften the impact of increased oil prices, were considered a sensible and safe option by the banks. That meant that during the second half of the 1970s, a significant proportion of the flows of capital to the developing world came from commercial banks. {3}

Ok, so private banks were making large and lucrative loans to these countries. So these are the guys that those countries, the ones with the "balance of payments crisis", owed money too. Well good thing they were private U.S. banks. The international financial system would probably understand if a private bank needed to make a sacrifice in case the country was having a really hard time paying it back.

"" The initial response to the developing-world debt crisis was an approach centred on short-term measures to prevent debt defaults. The IMF and the World Bank provided loans that were conditional on borrowing countries’ following a series of structural adjustment measures. Those were designed to increase the productivity of their economies in the hope that such increases would enable them to resolve their problems.{4}

Oh... so the IMF stepped in to... help... the country not default on a private loan. Well, ok, that's probably good, I guess maybe some creditors are better to deal with than others. But what's this thing about "structural adjustment measures"? The article doesn't have anything else on this, but there is a link to an article titled "Austerity" which might help:

"" During Argentina’s economic crisis in 1998–2002, the country adopted severe austerity measures, largely following the advice of its major creditor, the International Monetary Fund (IMF); they included cuts in government pensions and salaries and in numerous social programs, as well as significant tax increases. In return, the IMF agreed to extend a low-interest loan to the Argentine government to help its ailing economy.{5}

Ok... that doesn't sound too great actually. Maybe I made a mistake following that link. "Austerity" sounds like a loaded word anyways. I'll just search the encyclopedia for "structural adjustment IMF," see what turns up.

"" In the late 1980s Egypt’s economy suffered markedly from falling oil prices and was further weakened by a drop in the number of remittances from its three million workers abroad. In spite of a rising debt burden, the government continued to rely heavily on foreign economic aid, leading to growing interference by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Egypt’s economic policies; in 1991 the Egyptian government signed the Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program with the IMF and the World Bank. The country’s currency, the Egyptian pound, had to be devalued several times, interest rates were raised, and subsidies were lowered on food and fuel. These policies especially harmed the poorest Egyptians, who often looked to Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood for assistance.{6}

Huh.

"" Under pressure from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) to reverse the growth of government spending, liberalize prices, encourage a more open investment code, and provide incentives to agriculture and forestry, the Central African Republic submitted to a structural adjustment program in 1986.{7}

Government spending, like education and medicine?

"" At first, international agencies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, as well as Mobutu’s allies in the West, turned a blind eye to his personal appropriation of the economy and the associated declines in productivity and exports. The fall in copper prices in the mid-1970s, however, led to audits of state enterprises that revealed high levels of embezzlement. Nonetheless, Mobutu remained an important Cold War ally for Western countries, and for the next 20 years international financial institutions and his Western allies continued to find ways to keep the sinking economy afloat.{8}

Wha-

"" The economy responded with a relentless decline. Exports fell, inflation rose, and debt was significantly expanded. Debt services took more than half of the country’s export earnings, and imports nearly ceased for lack of foreign exchange. ... Under these adverse conditions the country’s infrastructure and social services deteriorated greatly. The rural population was reduced to subsistence levels, bartering with cattle and bags of paddy. Bankrupt by 1982, the country was forced to adopt a program of structural adjustment imposed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and face a humiliating turnabout to re-liberalize the economy. Abolition of the state monopolies was accepted, and any state enterprise that could not pay its way was threatened with privatization.{9}

Oh. Well, thats no fun.
 
@ ---
@ 1. "Did the Washington Consensus Fail?" An outline for a speech, dated 2002. https://www.piie.com/commentary/speeches-papers/did-washington-consensus-fail
@ 2. https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt
@ 3. Same, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt
@ 4. Same, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Third-World-debt
@ 5. https://www.britannica.com/topic/austerity
@ 6. https://www.britannica.com/place/Egypt
@ 7. https://www.britannica.com/place/Central-African-Republic/Economy
@ 8. https://www.britannica.com/place/Democratic-Republic-of-the-Congo/Economy
@ 9. https://www.britannica.com/place/Madagascar
