# Notes on White Experience
& 8-9-2020

1. My dad has this story which for him summarizes the difference between Iranian and American culture. “My friend Max was married to an American woman. They’re divorced now. He would tell me how she would label her food in the refrigerator so that thier children wouldn’t eat it.”

2. In an interview with New York squatters (from Midnight Notes’ The New Enclosures), I read the opinion that white cultural life in the U.S. is totally dead, that it has been eviscerated, that it lacks the sort of community life that has been part of the human experience since humans showed up on this earth. The context for this comment was the rampant secularism which has destroyed a popular form of community life: being part of a local church, which other demographics have held on to better.

2.1 Me and my mother used to go to a local spanish-speaking church every weekend, a predominantly Latin American church in which she made some friends and found some community life. When we moved deeper into the richer suburbs, the only nearby church was an english-speaking one She felt alienated and stopped going to church.

3. While living in Boston, the only time strangers actually payed attention to me walking down the street and casually greeted me was when I briefly visited a black neighborhood in Roxbury. People were actually spending time on the street rather than rushing by.

4. Capitalism has eviscerated white culture. White workers in Europe, as one of the raw materials for capitalism, had their common lands enclosed, and were forced into wage slavery by capitalists, transforming white community and social life. This destruction of white (and now pretty much every) community has continued through the present, as the modern economy forces an aspirational model of life which holds no bond or locale sacred. We are encouraged to move constantly for our work, jump from city to city, company to company, to live in largely anonymous cities, or completely atomized suburbs.

4.1 Although I understand that this model of work is imposed more on white collar workers.

4.2 One form of resistance is popular kinds of conservatism. Consider country pop music. It has a very concrete language, with a well understood universe of images and metaphors: trucks, dogs, dignified labor. People who listen to country music understand themselves as positioned in a place, a community, with concrete values. By contrast, top 40s radio is often vague, conceptual, the metaphors are more generic. (Although the ascendence of rap in pop music challenges this a little.) These two poles of pop music (the hegemonic top 40s vs the alternative country pop music) mirrors liberal vs conservative politics. The liberals see themselves as cosmopolitan, universal; the conservatives understand themselves as located, as part of a specific community. (Although this isn’t true for politicians, who are all lizards.)

4.2.1 Counter to this popular form of white resistance to liberal hegemony (country music, although I’m not trying to say it is predominently a form of resistance) is the liberal hunch that people who participate in it (people that listen to it) are parochial racists who vote for sexist bigots. But so much of this discourse is handed down to people by the intelligentsia (who conservatives despise). But who’s more on my side? you should ask yourself, The liberal media elites or white working people? (This is not a rhetorical question, the answer may very well be the intelligentsia.)

4.2.1.1 Conservative politicans are eating this up right now: liberals no longer make any pretenses of supporting white working class people. (Bernie is an exception.)

5. My girlfriend, from Mexico, tells me that the reason we can date is that I am not a typical USonian in that I have and understand the structure of extended family. She also says that my mom, though she is from Spain, is not really white in the US, because of the particular form of whiteness in the US (which is maybe the hegemonic whiteness?). My mom comes from a farming family, a dignified but working class form of living in mid-century Spain. A large family, she’s the 7th of 13 siblings.

6. For white Americans, culture has been so thoroughly eviscerated by the regime of wage labor that it’s hard to consider anything sacred.

6.1 Possibly this is the reason behind US theories of toxicity, of cancelling, even of gender experimentation. All of these have complex origins (think: queer communities trying to deal with family members which hurt them; gender based alienation; black social media cancelling predatory celebrities) but it is interesting how strongly these politics have proliferated in the mainstream. Maybe the utter desolation of white community life is a breeding ground for theories which tell you that you can cut any tie you have with anyone, that you can be anything you want.

6.1.1 Not trying to gender deconstruction is not valid, Im all for it.

6.2 This is also one of the roots of the appeal of US conservatism. Actually, conservatisms seem to pop out of conflicts with exploitative markets. Think the rise of fascism in Great Depression Germany.

6.2.1 Exploitative markets are the root of human expendibility. We just perpetuate it in our private lives.

7. My girlfriend is talking about the growing critique in Mexico City politics of radical feminism. She claims it has become the mainstream feminism there, and so we are seeing a repition of what happened in the 80s in the US between radical and “third world” feminists (think Audre Lorde): Meztisa feminists are making an identity political critique of radical feminism, saying that it carries with it all sorts of white-coded ideas. One example is that of cancelling (“scratching”), the idea that you can remove men from your community for having sexist beliefs, or because they have raped someone. This was common of student feminist groups while she studied at UNAM, and it is something which she and others have grown to be more critical of.

8. I am speaking in incredible generalities, as if “white US people” is a well defined and homogenous category. White experience is immense and multifaceted. My thoughts fail on so many different white communities. But I’m trying to explain part of white alienation which has been undeniable in my own life. 